[add] Content Story Page (#1394)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/content.md

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Authoring Content
description: "Astro is a perfect choice for your content-focused site: blogs, marketing sites, portfolios, and more! Author your content directly in your project, or connect your CMS of choice."
i18nReady: false
---
Astro is a perfect choice for your content-focused site: blogs, marketing sites, portfolios, and more!

Astro helps you author and present your content. You can write a blog post directly in Astro using Markdown/MDX, or fetch your content from a headless CMS. Astro lets you build a site around your content: you can add a layout to your pages, create an index of posts, and set up an RSS feed to allow readers to subscribe.

## Writing Content

In Astro, you can author your content in a variety of ways. 
- In Markdown (`.md`) files, designed to make it easy to write rich text content 
- In MDX (`.mdx`) files, which let you include components and dynamic expressions in your document
- Using a third-party content management system (CMS), then pulling that content into a `.astro` page.

> ### Markdown Authoring
> Markdown is a convenient syntax for writing rich text with basic formatting and common elements like headers, lists, and images.
> 
> Create a new `.md` file within the `src/pages/` directory in your Astro repository, or bring in an existing markdown file. You can edit this directly in your code editor or use an external markdown editor. Some online Markdown editors like [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/) or [Dillinger](https://dillinger.io) will even sync your work with your Astro repository stored on GitHub.
> 
> 📚 Learn more about [writing Markdown content in Astro](/en/guides/markdown-content/).
> 
> ### MDX Authoring
> If you add the MDX integration to your project, you can use `.mdx` files, which let you include JavaScript expressions and custom components within your Markdown content. This includes both static [Astro components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) and interactive [framework components](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/). Add UI elements such as a banner or an interactive carousel right in your text to turn your content into full-fledged web pages.
> 
> Write `.mdx` files directly in your code editor, alongside your project files. You write text content in standard markdown, but have access to additional features that utilize JavaScript. 
> 
> 📚 Learn more about the [Astro official MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/).

Author: ```suggestion
### Markdown Authoring
Markdown is a convenient syntax for writing rich text with basic formatting and common elements like headers, lists, and images. Astro has built-in support for Markdown files in your project.

Create and write a new `.md` file in your code editor or bring in an existing file written in your favorite Markdown editor. Some online Markdown editors like [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/) and [Dillinger](https://dillinger.io) will even allow you to edit and sync your work with your Astro repository stored on GitHub.

📚 Learn more about [writing Markdown content in Astro](/en/guides/markdown-content/).

### MDX Authoring
If you add the MDX integration to your project, you can also write content using `.mdx` files, which let you include JavaScript expressions and custom components within your Markdown. This includes both static [Astro components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) and interactive [framework components](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/). Add UI elements such as a banner or an interactive carousel right in your text to turn your content into full-fledged web pages.

Write and edit `.mdx` files directly in your code editor, alongside your project files.

📚 Learn more about the [Astro official MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/).
```

### Headless CMS Authoring

Write blog posts in your existing Content Management System (CMS) such as Storyblok, WordPress, or Contentful. Some CMSes, like Storyblok, provide an official [Astro integration](https://www.storyblok.com/mp/announcing-storyblok-astro). Others expose a JavaScript SDK that Astro pages can use to [fetch your remote content](/en/guides/data-fetching/#fetch-from-a-headless-cms).

## Managing pages

> Markdown and MDX files live in your `src/pages` directory and make use of [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/). Files in this directory will generate pages on your site, built at a URL corresponding to the post's file path. You can also [fetch filenames and metadata](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) from your Markdown and MDX frontmatter, allowing you to build index pages or tag pages.
> 
> If you're writing your content in a CMS, you can fetch your posts and use [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) to use one `.astro` file to generate a route for each post. In Astro's default static mode, these routes are generated at build time. If you opt-in to [SSR mode](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/), you respond to a request at runtime and fetch the content on demand.

Author: ```suggestion
Markdown and MDX files that live in your `src/pages` directory will automatically generate pages on your site using Astro's [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/), built at a URL corresponding to the post's file path. 

You can also choose to keep your Markdown and MDX files outside of the `src/pages` directory, and instead [import their content](/en/guides/markdown-content/#importing-markdown) into `.astro` pages.

To build features common on content-based websites such as a blog archive or a page for each blog tag, Astro allows you to [fetch filenames and metadata](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) from your Markdown and MDX frontmatter and use these to generate page content and routes.

If you're writing your content in a CMS, you can fetch your posts and use [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) to use one `.astro` file to generate a route for each post. In Astro's default static mode, these routes are generated at build time. If you opt-in to [SSR mode](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/), you respond to a request at runtime and fetch the content on demand.
```

> If you're writing your content in a CMS, you can fetch your posts and use [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) to use one `.astro` file to generate a route for each post. In Astro's default static mode, these routes are generated at build time. If you opt-in to [SSR mode](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/server-side-rendering/), you respond to a request at runtime and fetch the content on demand.

Author: ```suggestion
If you're writing your content in a CMS, you can fetch your posts and use [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) to use one `.astro` file to generate a route for each post. In Astro's default static mode, these routes are generated at build time. If you opt-in to [SSR mode](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/), you respond to a request at runtime and fetch the content on demand.
```

📚 Learn more about [writing Markdown content in Astro](/en/guides/markdown-content/).

### MDX Authoring
If you add the MDX integration to your project, you can also write content using `.mdx` files, which let you include JavaScript expressions and custom components within your Markdown. This includes both static [Astro components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) and interactive [framework components](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/). Add UI elements such as a banner or an interactive carousel right in your text to turn your content into full-fledged web pages.

Write and edit `.mdx` files directly in your code editor, alongside your project files.

📚 Learn more about the [Astro official MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/).

### Headless CMS Authoring

Write blog posts in your existing Content Management System (CMS) such as Storyblok, WordPress, or Contentful. Some CMSes, like Storyblok, provide an official [Astro integration](https://www.storyblok.com/mp/announcing-storyblok-astro). Others expose a JavaScript SDK that Astro pages can use to [fetch your remote content](/en/guides/data-fetching/#fetch-from-a-headless-cms).

> ## Managing pages
> 
> Markdown and MDX files that live in your `src/pages` directory will automatically generate pages on your site using Astro's [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/), built at a URL corresponding to the post's file path. 
> 
> You can also choose to keep your Markdown and MDX files outside of the `src/pages` directory, and instead [import their content](/en/guides/markdown-content/#importing-markdown) into `.astro` pages.
> 
> To build features common on content-based websites such as a blog archive or a page for each blog tag, Astro allows you to [fetch filenames and metadata](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) from your Markdown and MDX frontmatter and use these to generate page content and routes.
> 
> If you're writing your content in a CMS, you can fetch your posts and use [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) to use one `.astro` file to generate a route for each post. In Astro's default static mode, these routes are generated at build time. If you opt-in to [SSR mode](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/), you respond to a request at runtime and fetch the content on demand.

Author: ```suggestion
## Managing content pages

Markdown and MDX files that live in your `src/pages` directory will automatically generate pages on your site using Astro's [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/), built at a URL corresponding to the post's file path. 

You can also choose to keep your Markdown and MDX files outside of the `src/pages` directory, and instead [import their content](/en/guides/markdown-content/#importing-markdown) into `.astro` pages.

If you're writing your content in a CMS, you can fetch your posts and use [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) to use one `.astro` file to generate a route for each post. In Astro's default static mode, these routes are generated at build time. If you opt-in to [SSR mode](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/), you respond to a request at runtime and fetch the content on demand.

## Showcasing your content

To build common features to organize and display your content, such as a blog archive or a page for each blog tag, Astro allows you to [fetch filenames and metadata](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) from your Markdown and MDX frontmatter and use these to generate page content and routes.
```

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Authoring Content
description: "Astro is a perfect choice for your content-focused site: blogs, marketing sites, portfolios, and more! Author your content directly in your project, or connect your CMS of choice."
i18nReady: false
---
Astro is a perfect choice for your content-focused site: blogs, marketing sites, portfolios, and more!

Astro helps you author and present your content. You can write a blog post directly in Astro using Markdown/MDX, or fetch your content from a headless CMS. Astro lets you build a site around your content: you can add a layout to your pages, create an index of posts, and set up an RSS feed to allow readers to subscribe.

## Writing Content

> In Astro, you can author your content in a variety of ways. 
> - In Markdown (`.md`) files, designed to make it easy to write rich text content 
> - In MDX (`.mdx`) files, which let you include components and dynamic expressions in your document
> - Using a third-party content management system (CMS), then pulling that content into a `.astro` page.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
In Astro, you can author your content in a variety of ways: 
- In Markdown (`.md`) files, designed to make it easy to write rich text content.
- In MDX (`.mdx`) files, which let you include components and dynamic expressions in your document.
- Using a third-party content management system (CMS), then pulling that content into a `.astro` page.

```

## Managing content pages

Markdown and MDX files that live in your `src/pages` directory will automatically generate pages on your site using Astro's [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/), built at a URL corresponding to the post's file path. 

You can also choose to keep your Markdown and MDX files outside of the `src/pages` directory, and instead [import their content](/en/guides/markdown-content/#importing-markdown) into `.astro` pages.

If you're writing your content in a CMS, you can fetch your posts and use [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) to use one `.astro` file to generate a route for each post. In Astro's default static mode, these routes are generated at build time. If you opt-in to [SSR mode](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/), you respond to a request at runtime and fetch the content on demand.

## Showcasing your content

> To build common features to organize and display your content, such as a blog archive or a page for each blog tag, Astro allows you to [fetch filenames and metadata](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) from your Markdown and MDX frontmatter and use these to generate page content and routes.

Author: ```suggestion
To build common features to organize and display your content, such as a blog archive or a page for each blog tag, Astro allows you to [fetch filenames and metadata](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) from your Markdown and MDX frontmatter and use these to generate page content and routes.

## Community Integrations

In addition to the official [`@astrojs/mdx`](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/) integration, there are several third-party [community image integrations](https://astro.build/integrations/css+ui/?q=content) for working with content in your Astro project.
```

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Authoring Content
description: "Astro is a perfect choice for your content-focused site: blogs, marketing sites, portfolios, and more! Author your content directly in your project, or connect your CMS of choice."
i18nReady: false
---
Astro is a perfect choice for your content-focused site: blogs, marketing sites, portfolios, and more!

Astro helps you author and present your content. You can write a blog post directly in Astro using Markdown/MDX, or fetch your content from a headless CMS. Astro lets you build a site around your content: you can add a layout to your pages, create an index of posts, and set up an RSS feed to allow readers to subscribe.

## Writing Content

In Astro, you can author your content in a variety of ways: 
- In Markdown (`.md`) files, designed to make it easy to write rich text content.
- In MDX (`.mdx`) files, which let you include components and dynamic expressions in your document.
- Using a third-party content management system (CMS), then pulling that content into a `.astro` page.

> 

Author: Agreed! My initial notes did include `.astro` files, and I think was before we were confidently documenting how to use `.html` files, so that's a good addition too. I like being comprehensive.

Create and write a new `.md` file in your code editor or bring in an existing file written in your favorite Markdown editor. Some online Markdown editors like [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/) and [Dillinger](https://dillinger.io) will even allow you to edit and sync your work with your Astro repository stored on GitHub.

📚 Learn more about [writing Markdown content in Astro](/en/guides/markdown-content/).

### MDX Authoring
If you add the MDX integration to your project, you can also write content using `.mdx` files, which let you include JavaScript expressions and custom components within your Markdown. This includes both static [Astro components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) and interactive [framework components](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/). Add UI elements such as a banner or an interactive carousel right in your text to turn your content into full-fledged web pages.

Write and edit `.mdx` files directly in your code editor, alongside your project files.

📚 Learn more about the [Astro official MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/).

### Headless CMS Authoring

> Write blog posts in your existing Content Management System (CMS) such as Storyblok, WordPress, or Contentful. Some CMSes, like Storyblok, provide an official [Astro integration](https://www.storyblok.com/mp/announcing-storyblok-astro). Others expose a JavaScript SDK that Astro pages can use to [fetch your remote content](/en/guides/data-fetching/#fetch-from-a-headless-cms).

Author: Yeah, let's stick maybe with friendlier for now, given how "overview-y" this page is intended to be. Their blog page links to their integration, but also to other pages that might be useful, and is probably easier to scan to get a sense of what using it looks like.

Markdown and MDX files that live in your `src/pages` directory will automatically generate pages on your site using Astro's [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/), built at a URL corresponding to the post's file path. 

You can also choose to keep your Markdown and MDX files outside of the `src/pages` directory, and instead [import their content](/en/guides/markdown-content/#importing-markdown) into `.astro` pages.

If you're writing your content in a CMS, you can fetch your posts and use [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) to use one `.astro` file to generate a route for each post. In Astro's default static mode, these routes are generated at build time. If you opt-in to [SSR mode](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/), you respond to a request at runtime and fetch the content on demand.

## Showcasing your content

To build common features to organize and display your content, such as a blog archive or a page for each blog tag, Astro allows you to [fetch filenames and metadata](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) from your Markdown and MDX frontmatter and use these to generate page content and routes.

## Community Integrations

> In addition to the official [`@astrojs/mdx`](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/) integration, there are several third-party [community image integrations](https://astro.build/integrations/css+ui/?q=content) for working with content in your Astro project.

Author: Good catch. I copied this text over from the images guide and failed to update this.

i18nReady: false
---
Astro is a perfect choice for your content-focused site: blogs, marketing sites, portfolios, and more!

Write a blog post directly in Astro using Markdown/MDX, or fetch your content from a headless CMS. Add a layout, create an index of posts and optionally set up an RSS feed to allow readers to subscribe to your posts.

:::tip[Quick Start]
Want to explore a content-focused Astro site immediately? Open and edit one of our ready-to-go starter templates (blog, portfolio, documentation) right in your browser from [astro.new](https://astro.new)!
:::

## How to write content for your Site

In Astro, you can author your content in a variety of ways. For example, you can write blog posts:

- Entirely in Markdown, in the editor of your choice.
- In MDX (`.mdx`) files located in your Astro project.
- Using a third-part content management system (CMS).

### Markdown Authoring
Markdown is a convenient syntax for writing large amounts of text with shorthand syntax for some basic HTML formatting such as headers and font styles.

You can use any Markdown editor, including your code editor, to compose your content.

>  Create a new `.md` file within your Astro repository, or add a new Markdown file written in an external editor. Some online Markdown editors like [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/) or [Dillinger](https://dillinger.io) will even sync your work with your Astro repository stored on GitHub.

Reviewer: How do you add the external markdown file?

📚 Learn more about [writing Markdown content in Astro](/en/guides/markdown-content/).

### MDX Authoring

> With the optional Astro MDX integration added to your project, you can include JavaScript expressions and components within your Markdown content. Add UI elements such as a banner or an interactive carousel right in your text, to take your blogging to the next level!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you add the MDX integration to your project, you can include JavaScript expressions and components within your Markdown content. Add UI elements such as a banner or an interactive carousel right in your text, or use variables to include dynamic content.
```

(Since this page isn't just about blogging anymore.)

Write `.mdx` files directly in your code editor, alongside your project files. You can use frontmatter YAML, ESM import and export statements, and JavaScript expressions inside curly braces while writing your text content in standard Markdown.

📚 Learn more about the [Astro official MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/).

### Headless CMS Authoring

> 

Reviewer: This will link out to our CMS guides when they're ready

If you are writing your content in a CMS, then you can take advantage of Astro's [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) by using a single Astro page component to create multiple blog posts and pages from your fetched content.

## Adding Blog Infrastructure

Once your content exists as pages on your site, you can use [Astro's API](/en/reference/api-reference/) and [integrations](/en/guides/integrations-guide/) to build standard blog features such as filtered or sorted lists of your posts, individual pages for tags or categories, previous and next navigation, and an RSS feed.

These features require some one-time code set up. After that, your site will automatically update based on the current files in your project and any remote data returned by the most recent fetch calls. Note that for static websites, this updating occurs at build time only.

:::tip[Official Blog Starter]

> Visit [astro.new](https://astro.new/) to see and play with existing code powering some of these features in our official Blog starter template!

Reviewer: This is good placement for this, and now I especially want to remove the one in the page intro

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Authoring Content
description: "Astro is a perfect choice for your content-focused site: blogs, marketing sites, portfolios, and more! Author your content directly in your project, or connect your CMS of choice."
i18nReady: false
---
Astro is a perfect choice for your content-focused site: blogs, marketing sites, portfolios, and more!

Write a blog post directly in Astro using Markdown/MDX, or fetch your content from a headless CMS. Add a layout, create an index of posts and optionally set up an RSS feed to allow readers to subscribe to your posts.

:::tip[Quick Start]
Want to explore a content-focused Astro site immediately? Open and edit one of our ready-to-go starter templates (blog, portfolio, documentation) right in your browser from [astro.new](https://astro.new)!
:::

## How to write content for your Site

In Astro, you can author your content in a variety of ways. For example, you can write blog posts:

- Entirely in Markdown, in the editor of your choice.
- In MDX (`.mdx`) files located in your Astro project.
- Using a third-part content management system (CMS).

### Markdown Authoring

> Markdown is a convenient syntax for writing large amounts text with shorthand syntax for some basic HTML formatting such as headers and font styles.

Author: ```suggestion
Markdown is a convenient syntax for writing large amounts of text with shorthand syntax for some basic HTML formatting such as headers and font styles.
```

📚 Learn more about [writing Markdown content in Astro](/en/guides/markdown-content/).

### MDX Authoring
With the optional Astro MDX integration added to your project, you can include JavaScript expressions and components within your Markdown content. Add UI elements such as a banner or an interactive carousel right in your text, to take your blogging to the next level!

Write `.mdx` files directly in your code editor, alongside your project files. You can use frontmatter YAML, ESM import and export statements, and JavaScript expressions inside curly braces while writing your text content in standard Markdown.

📚 Learn more about the [Astro official MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/).

### Headless CMS Authoring

Write blog posts in your existing Content Management System (CMS) such as Storyblok, WordPress, or Contentful. 

Astro pages can [fetch your remote content](/en/guides/data-fetching/#fetch-from-a-headless-cms) using your service's API.

## Adding new blog posts or pages

> Any appopriate page file (`.astro`, `.md`, `.mdx`, `.js`/.`ts`, `.html`) located within `src/pages/` automatically creates its own page route on your website with Astro's built-in [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/). Add a new post to your blog by adding or generating a new file anywhere within this directory! Individual pages will be built automatically at a URL corresponding to the post's file path.

Author: ```suggestion
Any supported page file (`.astro`, `.md`, `.mdx`, `.js`/.`ts`, `.html`) located within `src/pages/` automatically creates its own page route on your website with Astro's built-in [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/). Add a new post to your blog by adding or generating a new file anywhere within this directory! Individual pages will be built at a URL corresponding to the post's file path.
```

If you are writing your content in a CMS, then you can take advantage of Astro's [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) by using a single Astro page component to create multiple blog posts and pages from your fetched content.

## Adding Blog Infrastructure

Once your content exists as pages on your site, you can use [Astro's API](/en/reference/api-reference/) and [integrations](/en/guides/integrations-guide/) to build standard blog features such as filtered or sorted lists of your posts, individual pages for tags or categories, previous and next navigation, and an RSS feed.

> These features require some one-time code set up. After that, your site will automatically update based on the current files in your project and any remote data returned by the most recent fetch calls. Note that for static websites, this updating occurs at build time only. See our guides and reference pages throughout this site for specific code examples.

Author: ```suggestion
These features require some one-time code set up. After that, your site will automatically update based on the current files in your project and any remote data returned by the most recent fetch calls. Note that for static websites, this updating occurs at build time only.
```

:::tip[Official Blog Starter]
Visit [astro.new](https://astro.new/) to see and play with existing code powering some of these features in our official Blog starter template!
:::

### Blog Index

You can use the [`Astro.glob()` function](/en/reference/api-reference/#astroglob) to create a query that retrieves data from a set of defined local files, such as all your blog posts. You can select, filter and sort these results using standard JavaScript operations. 

Then, build exactly what you want displayed on your page, such as a full blog post archive or a list of your five most recent posts.

### Tags/Categories Pages

> You can also create more customized pages using the content and metadata of your blog posts.
> 
> For example, using Astro's `Astro.glob()` function inside an `.astro` page component that dynamically generates multiple pages, you can automatically build individual pages for each blog tag. These functions and operations are written using standard JavaScript in your Astro page component's frontmatter. 
> 
> With Astro's JSX-like templating, you can use the properties of each post like `title` and `url`  to customize your page content. Or, write and import a dedicated Astro or UI framework component to display a card for each post, and pass these properties as attributes.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also create more customized pages using the content and metadata of your blog posts.

For example, you can dynamically build individual pages from each unique tag found in your blog posts and list only the posts with that tag.  You can use the properties of each post like `title` and `url` directly in your page template to customize your page content. Or, write and import a dedicated component to handle the templating for each post.
```

📚 Learn more about the [Astro official MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/).

### Headless CMS Authoring

Write blog posts in your existing Content Management System (CMS) such as Storyblok, WordPress, or Contentful. 

Astro pages can [fetch your remote content](/en/guides/data-fetching/#fetch-from-a-headless-cms) using your service's API.

## Adding new blog posts or pages

Any appopriate page file (`.astro`, `.md`, `.mdx`, `.js`/.`ts`, `.html`) located within `src/pages/` automatically creates its own page route on your website with Astro's built-in [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/). Add a new post to your blog by adding or generating a new file anywhere within this directory! Individual pages will be built automatically at a URL corresponding to the post's file path.

If you are writing your content in a CMS, then you can take advantage of Astro's [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) by using a single Astro page component to create multiple blog posts and pages from your fetched content.

> 
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

📚 Learn more about [writing Markdown content in Astro](/en/guides/markdown-content/).

### MDX Authoring
With the optional Astro MDX integration added to your project, you can include JavaScript expressions and components within your Markdown content. Add UI elements such as a banner or an interactive carousel right in your text, to take your blogging to the next level!

Write `.mdx` files directly in your code editor, alongside your project files. You can use frontmatter YAML, ESM import and export statements, and JavaScript expressions inside curly braces while writing your text content in standard Markdown.

📚 Learn more about the [Astro official MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/).

### Headless CMS Authoring

Write blog posts in your existing Content Management System (CMS) such as Storyblok, WordPress, or Contentful. 

Astro pages can [fetch your remote content](/en/guides/data-fetching/#fetch-from-a-headless-cms) using your service's API.

## Adding new blog posts or pages

> Any `.astro`, `.md` or `.mdx` file located within `src/pages/` automatically creates its own page route on your website with Astro's built-in [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/). Add a new post to your blog by adding a new file to your project anywhere within this directory! Individual pages will be built automatically at a URL corresponding to the post's file path.

Author: ```suggestion
Any appopriate page file (`.astro`, `.md`, `.mdx`, `.js`/.`ts`, `.html`) located within `src/pages/` automatically creates its own page route on your website with Astro's built-in [file-based routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/). Add a new post to your blog by adding or generating a new file anywhere within this directory! Individual pages will be built automatically at a URL corresponding to the post's file path.
```

If you are writing your content in a CMS, then you can take advantage of Astro's [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) by using a single Astro page component to create multiple blog posts and pages from your fetched content.

> ### Markdown/MDX pages
> 
> You can use an Astro layout for your pages and posts by adding a frontmatter `layout` property in any `.md` or `.mdx` file located within `src/pages/`. Your Markdown or MDX content will be injected in the position of its default `<slot/>`.
> 
> This option is useful when your Markdown content is the entirety of your page content, and you use a standard layout for each page or blog post.

Author: ```suggestion
### Markdown/MDX pages

You can use an Astro layout for your pages and posts by adding a frontmatter `layout` property in any `.md` or `.mdx` file located within `src/pages/`. Your Markdown or MDX content will be injected in the position of its default `<slot/>`.

This option is useful when your Markdown content is the entirety of your page content, and you use a standard layout for each page or blog post.

📚 Learn more about [using Markdown/MDX files as pages](/en/guides/markdown-content/#markdown-and-mdx-pages).

```

> ### Astro pages
> You can also [import Markdown content](/en/guides/markdown-content/#importing-markdown) from `.md` and `.mdx` files into `.astro` files. This allows you to build your page content directly in Astro components, with injections of Markdown content.
> 
> This option is useful when you want the advantages of authoring with `.astro` component syntax and JSX-like features, while including some sections of text written in Markdown.

Author: ```suggestion
### Astro pages
You can also [import Markdown content](/en/guides/markdown-content/#importing-markdown) from `.md` and `.mdx` files into `.astro` files. This allows you to build your page content directly in Astro components, with injections of Markdown content.

This option is useful when you want the advantages of authoring with `.astro` component syntax and JSX-like features, while including some sections of text written in Markdown.

📚 Learn more about [importing Markdown/MDX content into an Astro page](/en/guides/markdown-content/#importing-markdown).
```

> ### Dynamically-generated pages from remote content
> You can create an `.astro` page component that both fetches data from a remote source, and exports a function that will generate multiple pages at build time.
> 
> This option is useful when your content does not exist as individual files within your Astro `src/` directory, and therefore you cannot use Astro's file-based routing to create new pages.

Author: ```suggestion
### Dynamically-generated pages from remote content
You can create an `.astro` page component that both fetches data from a remote source, and exports a function that will generate multiple pages at build time.

This option is useful when your content does not exist as individual files within your Astro `src/` directory, and therefore you cannot use Astro's file-based routing to create new pages.

📚 Learn more about [fetching data from a headless CMS](/en/guides/data-fetching/#fetch-from-a-headless-cms) or [fetching remote Markdown/MDX content](/en/guides/markdown-content/#importing-markdown).
```
